Greater Mekong Subregion Map-Directory Project

This project will develop a map-directory to provide a range of information about Non-Government Organsiations (NGO) and social enterprises working in the Greater Mekong Subregion(GMS). 

The Greater Mekong Subregion comprises the six states of the Mekong River basin, namely Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, and Yunnan Province, China. This region covers 2.6 million square kilometers and is home to some 326 million people, the great majority of who are very poor and lead subsistence or near subsistence agricultural lifestyles.

Much of the region has experience great difficulty over the last half century; the American War in Vietnam which engulfed Vietnam and drew in Cambodia and Laos, the Khmer Rouge & Pol Pot regimmes in Cambodia, formerly Kampuchea, which saw horrific mass murder and widespread famine, as well as the Burma/Myanmar military junta which only recently has begun to loosen its oppressive control of the impoverished population.

As a result of this war deep trauma and poverty we estimate over 2000-2500 Interntaional NGOs work in this region. However information on these NGOs is very patchy. The region is predominantly governed by military and communist governements - who are not known for their transparency, openness or cooperation with the international community. There is no central register of NGOs run by internatioanl organisations such as the UN, World Bank or the Asian Development Bank.

Transparent, accessible and comprehensive information is essential for NGOs to plan their services and fund-raising, as well as for a variety of other stake holders, such as international organisations, funders, volunteers, researchers, academics and policy makers. 

As people of 'the lucky country', we Australians feel a strong connection to this region. While of course there is deep need in Africa and the Middle East, Asia is our backyard and regretably our forefathers directly contributed to some of the suffering through our governments involvement in the American War in Vietnam... a futile war that still to this day maims and disbles children to due to the legacy of unexploded ordnance(UXB) and widespread Agent Orange (AO) toxicity.

This project aims to fill this information gap, providing a valuable and transparent information resource to those working for the welfare of the hunreds of millions of GMS inhabitants. While not a flashy headline grabbing kind of project, this initiative will offer a substantial boost to NGOs, increasing their efficiency and efficacy doing the great work they do in Australia's backyard.
